It simplifies memory management by providing each process with a uniform address space. 

To help us keep the different caches in the memory hierarchy straight, we will use the term SRAM cache to denote the L1, L2, and L3 cache memories between the CPU and main memory, and the term DRAM cache to denote the VM system’s cache that caches virtual pages in main memory.


In virtual memory parlance, blocks are known as pages. The activity of transferring a page between disk and memory is known as swapping or paging. Pages are swapped in (paged in) from disk to DRAM, and swapped out (paged out) from DRAM to disk.


9.3.6 Locality to the Rescue Again
Although the total number of distinct pages that programs reference during an entire run might exceed the total size of physical memory, the principle of locality promises that at any point in time they will tend to work on a smaller set of active pages known as the working set or resident set. After an initial overhead where the working set is paged into memory, subsequent references to the working set result in hits, with no additional disk traffic.
As long as our programs have good temporal locality, virtual memory systems work quite well. But of course, not all programs exhibit good temporal locality. If the working set size exceeds the size of physical memory, then the program can produce an unfortunate situation known as thrashing, where pages are swapped in and out continuously. Although virtual memory is usually efficient, if a program’s performance slows to a crawl, the wise programmer will consider the possibility that it is thrashing.



This notion of mapping a set of contiguous virtual pages to an arbitrary location in an arbitrary file is known as memory mapping.

The TLBs are virtually addressed, and 4-way set associative. The L1, L2, and L3 caches are physically addressed, with a block size of 64 bytes. L1 and L2 are 8-way set associative, and L3 is 16-way set associative. The page size can be configured at start-up time as either 4 KB or 4 MB. Linux uses 4 KB pages.